# Applying Steganography and Encryption to Watermark Digital Media

In a world that is becoming increasingly connected through shared media, content creators face many challenges in preventing others from taking credit for their work. Visible watermarks are easily removed and will not always prevent adversaries from re-uploading images without permission, which can infringe on copyright protection and the privacy of others. Through a combination of steganography and encryption, we aim to solve this problem by applying an invisible watermark to an image that is only easily detectable with a private key.

We plan on building a python application that applies an invisible watermark to an image and then extracts that invisible watermark given the private key. This application will alter the bits of random pixels based off of a steganographic algorithm and will then obfuscate the meaning of these altered bits by implementing an encryption algorithm. To extract and decrypt the watermark, we will also need to implement an extraction and decryption algorithm which will work based off of a private key. In our presentation, we will show how this might be useful by uploading a watermarked image, having someone repost that image to another website, and then downloading that image and extracting and decrypting the watermark.

We expect that we can create a workable demo of how this tool might be useful in a real world setting in our four and a half week timeframe. Our prototype will be able to apply basic steganographic and encryption algorithms on an unaltered image of fixed dimensions and will then produce a private key that can reverse this process to produce the watermark. Given time, we will look to improve on our prototype to better handle an adversary who may try to fool our algorithms through cropping, greyscaling, or other image-altering techniques.
